# USCrime-Analysis

Almost nobody notices obvious things in the world, and solving and preventing crime would be much more effective if law enforcement agencies noticed these clues left in the open, but this cannot be relied upon entirely due to human error. Several technologies can help modern law enforcement outperform fictional detectives. In almost every industry, data analytics is used to support data-driven decisions. Policing does not use data in a new way, however. Historically, law enforcement agencies have relied on data in some way to solve crimes. For years, the police have relied on data to respond to crimes, whether it is criminal profiling or crime detection. Using modern data analytics tools, law enforcement can prevent crimes more effectively.(Dixon, 2021).

The effects of violent crime can be felt by families, neighborhoods and communities, causing physical harm and social and emotional distress. These effects include injury, disability, premature death, depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder.

The project outlines crimes from various parts of the United States and a large part of it was retrieved from the Federal Bureau of Investigation(FBI) and the FOIA contributing 3.01%. Key considerations involved in the data are the number of victims,number of perpetrators, relationships between victims and perpetrators, their race and ethnicity, gender, ages, the weapons used, the state and cities the crimes were committed and most importantly if the crimes were solved or not. 

The goal of crime analysis is to assist the operations of every police department. In addition to criminal investigation and prosecution, patrol activities, crime prevention and reduction strategies, problem solving, evaluation, and accountability of police efforts are included in these functions. There would be no crime analysis without police agencies. (Bureau of Justice Assistance, 2007). This project aims to help analyse, detect trends and proffer a solution to law enforcements on reducing crime rates significantly.
